@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This file is part of Guile-INI Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2021-2025 Artyom V. Poptsov
@c See the file guile-ini.texi for copying conditions.

@node FSM Context
@section FSM Context

@deftp {Class} <ini-context> @
               [#:read-comments?=#t]
This class describes an INI parser context.
@table @asis
@item #:comment-prefix (value <symbol>)
The commentary prefix.  Default commentary prefix is ``;''.
@item #:read-comments? (value <boolean>)
Whether the parser should read the comments or skip them.
@end table
@end deftp

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} ini-context-result (ini-context <ini-context>)
Get the parser result from an @var{ini-context}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} stanza->list-of-strings (stanza <stack>)
Convert a @var{stanza} to a list of strings.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} guard:comment? ch ctx
Check if a character @var{ch} is a comment symbol.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} guard:comment/read? ch ctx
Check if a character @var{ch} is a comment symbol and we must read the
comment.

The procedure uses the comment prefix from the @var{ctx} @code{<ini-context>}
instance.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} action:start-section ch ctx
Start a new section.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} action:append-property ch ctx
Append a new property to the parsing result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} action:append-comment ch ctx
Append a commentary to the result of parsing.
@end deffn

@c Local Variables:
@c TeX-master: "guile-ini.texi"
@c End:
